Simon senek is one of the world's
greatest public speakers and in this
video I am going to break down one of
his one of the most popular TED talks of
all time and help you understand what
makes it so great now I will say for
this video I wanted to show you realtime
clips from Simon's presentation and
perhaps I made the mistake of asking
permission I should have just begged for
forgiveness perhaps but I reached out to
Ted and asked them if I could use clips
from this video and they actually
declined my request which was too bad
but we're still going to do this video
we're still going to work around it so
I've included timestamps for each
example I give throughout the video so
you can click on the links in the show
notes watch that clip and you will know
exactly what I am referring to now for
those of you who have seen this Ted Talk
in its entirety and I encourage you to
watch the Ted talk as part of this video
you will know that it's not a great Ted
talk because of the video quality or the
audio quality in fact the microphone is
so bad that at one point Simon actually
has to switch microphones mid
presentation but it's Simon's structure
his style and there's so many other
elements that make this a great speech
the first thing Simon does really well
is the introduction there's a time stamp
Below in the show notes that will show
you that introduction but he asks a
powerful question how do you explain
when things don't go as we assume or
better how do you explain when people
are able to achieve things that defy all
assumptions this is what you want to do
with the first words that come out of
your mouth on stage you want to ask a
thought-provoking question or give a
powerful statement or jump right into a
story many speakers make the mistake of
doing the formal introduction
hey there for everyone who doesn't know
me my name is Wade This is unnecessary
information your audience will glaze
over it instead you want to jump right
in to the content and that is what Simon
does with his introduction shortly after
his introduction Simon gives relatable
examples he talks about Apple he talks
about Martin Luther King and he talks
about the right brothers and then he
pauses for effect and he speeds up and
this is a theme throughout Simon's
speech is the vocal variety and the pace
of which he speaks brings in the
audience because it adjusts depending on
what he's talking about he speeds up
when he wants to keep the audience
thinking on their
feet and then he slows down when he
wants a point to really resonate with
the audience the next time stamp you'll
see below is the powerful statement that
Simon gives he says as it turns out
there's a pattern and it's the complete
opposite to everyone else all I did was
codify it and then he moves to his
visual aid which is a flip chart where
he dives into this whole thesis but that
powerful statement draws the audience in
right off the bat they've gotten a
powerful question they've got relatable
examples that they know they can
understand easily and then a powerful
statement that is opposite contrary to
everything they've learned before so
within the first minute or two minutes
of Simon's speech he has drawn the
audience in because they know they are
about to learn something profound the
next thing that makes this Ted talk so
great is the visuals and they're nothing
fancy there are some public speakers out
there that have amazing videos flying
behind them or brilliant
photographs but Simon has a simple flip
chart with a few circles and yet it is
so powerful because as he's talking and
discussing the why he's able to show how
it relates with the circles and drawing
arrows and that makes it really powerful
and easy for the audience to understand
I really think that this speech would
have had far less impact if it didn't
have that simple flip chart with Simon's
messy circles and perhaps substandard
artistic
abilities but but the visuals are simple
and it draw Us in as an audience and we
can understand his message one of my
favorite things about this Ted Talk is
the structure it is very simple and it
is very effective there are five
elements to the speech that Simon gives
first it's the introduction it's that
powerful question that makes us think
and then it's the three relatable ideas
that we know are going to follow in the
speech he talks about apple he talks
about Martin Luther King and he talks
about the Wright brothers each of those
branches has a bigger part which he will
get to but the introduction is giving
the audience that framework then he
dives into each apple he has the flip
chart and he's showing the path the why
the how the what showing how it
interlinks within those circles he then
uses that visual diagram to explain the
right brother story as well well so if
the beginning is the introduction the
second point is Apple the third is wri
Brothers on the fourth Point Simon also
introduces Martin Luther King's Story
and the conclusion is wrapping all of
this together it is a very well
structured speech with five branches and
this is what I suggest for you if you
are struggling with how to build a
speech aim for five things your
introduction and your conclusion that's
too out of the way now you have three
main points if that's a wedding speech
maybe that's a story about the person
who's getting married perhaps that's
their great qualities and the third
branch would be the person that they're
marrying if it's a work presentation
perhaps the first branch is data about
whatever you're talking about the second
part is a relatable story that puts that
data into perspective and the third is
future
projections I really like this idea five
main points to a speech and as you can
see one of the best TED Talks that's out
there utilized this structure I talked
about pacing earlier and I've linked
down to a great pacing example from this
speech and Simon does this expertly and
another thing you see with his pacing is
when he injects humor from time to time
although this is not an overly funny
speech he will drop in a little bit of
humor and then he'll pause and you can
see the audience reaction this is a
powerful thing you can do in any speech
you deliver is introducing the pause
after injecting some humor the final
thing Simon did really well in the
speech which is also linked to in the
show notes is dealing with when
something goes wrong I mentioned at the
beginning the audio wasn't perfect and
partway through the speech somebody
comes up and gives Simon another
microphone but this doesn't throw him
off which is saying a lot because it's
tough when we're delivering a
presentation and something happens that
we're not expecting it can derail us but
Simon simply grabs the new microphone
Transitions and never loses his Cadence
and this is an expert skill if something
goes wrong somebody drops and breaks a
glass or a door slams or somebody's
phone goes off things like this happen
when we give presentations from time to
time and you have two choices you can do
as Simon did and ignore the distraction
and keep going with your speech or you
can call it out you can mention it
hopefully without embarrassing anyone
but if everyone has noticed a
distraction you can try to weave that
into your speech somehow either way that
is how professionals deal with
distractions and Simon did a great job
in this speech it's hard for me to
criticize one of the greatest TED talks
of all time but I do think there's one
way
Simon s could have made his Ted Talk
that is so famous a little bit better
and that is this incredible moment when
he's talking about the right brothers
and he has the audience's attention and
if you listen carefully you can actually
hear a plane outside the
venue this would have been a great
opportunity for Simon to recognize that
as he's talking about the right Brothers
what are the chances you can actually
hear a plane he could have Incorporated
that into his presentation been aware of
it mentioned it and somehow tied it in
and that would have been so incredibly
powerful the speech doesn't need any
more Improvement it's one of the
greatest TED talks of all time but that
is one way it could have been a little
bit better I hope this video on
analyzing one of the greatest TED talks
of all time was helpful I do apologize
that I wasn't able to share the actual
Clips with you I want to respect Ted's
copyright policy on this whether I agree
with it or not I think it's helpful to
have educational pieces that way but
this makeshift solution of the links
below I hope was helpful for you please
let me know if it was or what your
thoughts are after going and checking
out Simon Sonu Ted talk if you have not
already done so please subscribe to my
channel and check out this video that is
popping up right now
because this is the one I talked about
earlier about hooking your audience and
it is a profound way to improve any
speech